00:32:33	Scott Rettberg:	https://skjemaker.app.uib.no/view.php?id=10554607
00:39:54	Álvaro Seiça:	Great overview of clips!
01:16:55	Christian Ulrik Andersen:	Many interesting aspects relating to gender, bodies and globalisation. You clearly see the pandemic as a filter for much larger and ongoing discussions.
01:20:42	Andrew Klobucar:	Do you see anything unifying in the work that point towards the 2020s representing something akin a new era in digital art?
01:20:44	Christian Ulrik Andersen:	What kind of "post" is in the post (?) pandemic? (Besides the obvious relation to Populists like Bolsonaro who claims it is a "baby flu", as mentioned... and also besides the fact that the pandemic is not over,  as experienced by the participants in this conference,  too)
... How does "post (?) pandemic" relate to other "posts" related to technological development (post digital, post internet, post media) – where the "post" allows us to periodise technological innovation and how this is played out culturally.
The artists you've interviewed reflect on this, too, it seems. (e.g. Ben Grosser says "we're stuck in software"). So, I wonder if any thoughts on this have come out of your research?
01:22:23	Christian Ulrik Andersen:	How does the periodising logic in the "post" allow us to understand a crisis (such as the pandemic)? Do we not also need to break with the periodising logic of the "post"? Say, "post modernism" has not been capable of encompassing global issues - at least this has been a critique put forward by some thinkers. And also "post colonialism" (which you refer to, too). has been criticised. Do we not need to complicate time - and time as a cultural construct – to understand a crisis like this (and the climate crisis, too) – which perhaps is also present in the aesthetics of the works you bring forward (pointing to loops, endless scrolls, repetitions, cancelations, etc.)?
01:28:55	Julian Hanna:	This manifesto seems relevant re: screens & the post-pandemic: ‘So no, no video today. Or tomorrow. You’ll remember what I look like, when we meet again.’ https://michelle.kasprzak.ca/blog/writing-lecturing/anti-video-chat-manifesto
01:32:01	Christian Ulrik Andersen:	Yes, the “post” kind of prevents. us of thinking about the crisis; there is a logic in it that is incapable of encompassing such a thing as a crisis.
01:32:13	Andrew Klobucar:	Fauci definitely became a symbol here
01:34:57	Julian Hanna:	Thanks for a very interesting discussion & project!
01:35:04	Christian Ulrik Andersen:	Thank you, Looking forward to seeing more of what comes out of this.
01:35:06	Andrew Klobucar:	Incredible ideas! Thanks!
01:35:12	Chris Arnold:	Great project, thanks for the discussion.
